Justification

1. Authority: HUD Regulations 24 CFR 1.6 - Nondiscrimination in
Federally Assisted Programs of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development -Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Right Act of 1964;
Federal Register Notice (62 FR 58782-58790) published on October 30,
1997; and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Bulletin No. 00-02
–Provisional Guidance on Aggregation and Allocation of Data on Race for
Use in Civil Rights Monitoring and Enforcement.

  Based on the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Title
  VI Regulations (24 CFR 1.6), HUD requires all recipients of funding to
  maintain and submit racial and ethnic data so HUD may determine
  whether federally assisted programs are in compliance with Title VI
  data collection requirements. HUD must offer individuals, who are
  responding to agency data requests for race, the option of selecting
  one or more of five racial categories. HUD must also treat ethnicity
  as a category separate from race, and change the terminology for
  certain racial and ethnic groups.

2.  Under Title VI of the Civil Right Act of 1964, no person in the
    United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national
    origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits
    of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or
    activity receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department
    of Housing and Urban Development. Title VI requires all recipients
    of HUD funding to maintain and submit this data during program
    monitoring and compliance reviews to ensure compliance with
    nondiscrimination requirements of Title VI.

This collection of information provides that all HUD programs comply
with OMB guidelines on reporting aggregating data on race and ethnicity.

3.  HUD’s automated systems have been modified to conform to the latest
    requirements. The E-Grants system is in place and serves, as the
    primary system for collection of this sort of information.

4. This collection of information is not being duplicated.

5.  This collection of information does not have an impact on small
    businesses or other small entities.

6.  The racial and ethnic data of HUD funded recipients must be
    available to the Department to show:

  (1) the actual beneficiaries of HUD’s programs and activities;

  (2) the extent to which members of minority groups are beneficiaries
  of HUD’s federally assisted programs.

7.  There are no special circumstances that require this collection of
    information to be conducted in a manner that is inconsistent with
    the guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.6.

8.  Notice of this collection of information was published in the
    Federal Register on April 10, 2013, Vol. 78 Page 21393. No comments
    were received.

9.  There are no payments or gifts provided to respondents in this
    collection of information.

10. There are no assurances of confidentiality provided in this
    collection of information.

11. There are no questions of a sensitive nature asked in this
collection of information.

12. Estimate of the hour burden of the collection of information.

The number of responses is potentially well over four millions
accounting for all submissions to the Department which are provide
racial / ethnic information.

The resulting public burden is reported under submissions by each
program information collection.

The number of burden hours, 4,100,000. The number of respondents is
4,100.000, the number of responses is 4,100,000, the frequency of
response is annually and on occasion, and the burden hours per response
is 1.

13. There is no additional cost burden to respondents.

14. There is no additional cost to the Federal Government.

15. This is an extension without change, of a currently approved
collection.

16. The results of this collection of information will not be published.

17. The OMB approval number and expiration date will be displayed on the
form.

18. There are no exceptions to the certification statement identified in
Item 19 of OMB 83-I.

B.  Collections of Information Employing Statistical Methods

The collection of information will not be used for statistical purposes.
